---
id: 7725
title: Prayer
date: 2012-10-22T07:19:32+00:00
author: Vicki
layout: post
guid: http://blog.vickiboykis.com/wlb/?p=7725
permalink: /2012/10/prayer/
categories:
  - Uncategorized
tags:
  - eli
  - francis villon
  - Jewish
  - okudzhava
  - prayer
  - regina
  - Russian
  - spektor
  - szenes
---
A cover of a song has never made me cry. Until this one:


  
__

_Original song, Molitva, The Prayer, by <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bulat_Okudzhava" target="_blank">Bulat Okudzhava</a>, peoples&#8217; poet._

Everyone loves Okudzhava, but I hate his irritating singing voice, which he probably would have agreed with, as he refused to acknowledge his singing and playing in favor of his beautiful poetry.

Regina Spektor transforms this song into something raw and desperate.

_Translated beautifully into rhyming English by Alec Vagapov with a few tweaks by me:_

While the earth still turns, and while the light is bright,
  
Oh Lord, please give everyone what he or she hasn&#8217;t got.
  
Give the timid a horse to ride, give the wise a bright head,
  
Give the fortunate  enough money and about me please don&#8217;t forget.

While the world is still turning, Lord, You are omnipotent,
  
Let those striving for power wield it to their heart&#8217;s content.
  
Give a break to the generous, at least for a day or two,
  
Pray, give Cain repentance, and remember me, too.

I know You are almighty, I believe You are wise
  
Like a soldier killed in a battle believes he&#8217;s in paradise.
  
Like every eared creature believes, oh, my Lord, in You,
  
Like we believe desperately, doing something, not knowing what we do.

Oh Lord, oh my sweet Lord, My emerald-eyed One, You&#8217;re Good.
  
While the world is still turning, wondering, why it should,
  
While it has got sufficient fire and time, as You see,
  
Give each man a little bit and don&#8217;t forget about me.