---
layout: post
title: The humble hash map 
---

<meta name="twitter:card" content="summary">
<meta name="twitter:site" content="@vboykis">
<meta name="twitter:creator" content="@vboykis">
<meta name="twitter:title" content="My plants">
<meta name="twitter:description" content="My plants are growing. ">



Sometime in January, in the heart of the gloom of  pandemic winter, I read [The Overstory](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40180098-the-overstory) - thank you to everyone who recommended it. The book was so beautiful and so medidative on the power of trees, these things that we often don't notice and take for granted. It described trees, their inner lives, and their impact on us as humans in such a gentle, complicated way, but one that drew the reader into this level of nerding out about trees. 

> You and the tree in your backyard come from a common ancestor. A billion and a half years ago, the two of you parted ways. But even now, after an immense journey in separate directions, that tree and you still share a quarter of your genes

Begins the book that one of the characters is writing, within The Overstory. 

> We found that trees could communicate, over the air and through their roots. Common sense hooted us down. We found that trees take care of each other. Collective science dismissed the idea. Outsiders discovered how seeds remember the seasons of their childhood and set buds accordingly. Outsiders discovered that trees sense the presence of other nearby life. That a tree learns to save water. That trees feed their young and synchronize their masts and bank resources and warn kin and send out signals to wasps to come and save them from attacks. “Here’s a little outsider information, and you can wait for it to be confirmed. A forest knows things. They wire themselves up underground. There are brains down there, ones our own brains aren’t shaped to see. Root plasticity, solving problems and making decisions. Fungal synapses. What else do you want to call it? Link enough trees together, and a forest grows aware.

After reading this, and remembering [stories about how trees talk to each other](https://www.ted.com/talks/suzanne_simard_how_trees_talk_to_each_other?language=en), wanting to feel in control of something, anything during this time of utter chaos, I decided to buy some plants. 

I started small, by repotting a small plant that a family member had given me when we moved into our curent house, almost ten years ago. 


After a while, my collection grew and grew. 

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Good morning 🌿🌱 <a href="https://t.co/iUK7ombBWt">pic.twitter.com/iUK7ombBWt</a></p>&mdash; Vicki Boykis (@vboykis) <a href="https://twitter.com/vboykis/status/1381982681957863434?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 13, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script> 

Now I have plants in almost every room. My daughter, and now, the baby, too want to water them, to talk to them, to gently pet them. 

They are silent, and yet they are not quiet. They move every day, wither and grow depending on the water I give them, shrink away and move towards the light. They talk to each other, they take up their own space. I take care of them, but they've also started taking care of me. 
